Hezekiah became King when he was 25
years old and he reigned 29 years in
Jerusalem his mother's name was Abijah
the daughter of Zechariah and he did
what was right in the sight of the Lord
according to all that his father David
had done in the first year of his reign
in the first month he opened the doors
of the house of the Lord and repaired
the Prophet then he brought in the
priests and the Levites and gathered
them in the East Square hear me Levites
[Music]
now sanctify yourselves sanctify the
house of the Lord God of your father's
and carry out the rubbish from the holy
place for her father's have trespassed
and done evil in the eyes of the Lord
our God they have forsaken him have
turned their faces away from the
dwelling place of the Lord and turned
their backs on him they have also shut
up the doors of the vestibule put out
the lamps and have not burned incense or
offered burnt offerings in the holy
place to the God of Israel therefore the
wrath of the Lord fell upon Judah and
Jerusalem and he has given them up to
trouble to desolation and - jeering as
you see with your eyes for indeed
because of this our fathers have fallen
by the sword and our sons our daughters
and our wives are in captivity now it is
in my heart to make a covenant with the
Lord God of Israel that his fierce wrath
may turn away from us
sons do not be negligent now but the
Lord has chosen you to stand before him
to serve Him and that you should
minister to him and burn incense
then these Levites arose may have the
son of ma SE and Joel the son of Azariah
of the sons of the kohathites of the
sons of near a rye Kish the son of AB
died and Azariah the son of jihad Allah
of the gershonites joah
the son of Zimmer and Eden the son of
Joan of the sons of Ella's athan
shimmery and GI o of the sons of a Seth
Zechariah and mattaniah of the sons of
Haman cahaya and shamea and of the sons
of Jerusalem Sameach and Accio and they
gathered their brethren sanctified
themselves and went according to the
commandment of the King at the words of
the Lord to cleanse the house of the law
then the priests went into the inner
part of the house of the Lord to cleanse
it and brought out all the debris that
they found in the temple of the Lord to
the court of the house of the Lord and
the Levites took it out and carried it
to the brook kidron now they began to
sanctify on the first day of the month
and on the eighth day of the month they
came to the vestibule of the Lord so
they sanctified the house of the Lord in
eight days and on the 16th day of the
first month they finished then they went
in to King Hezekiah we have cleansed all
the house of the Lord the altar of burnt
offerings with all its articles and the
table of the showbread with all its
articles moreover all the articles which
King Ahaz in his reign had cast aside in
his transgression we have prepared and
sanctified
and there they are before the altar of
the Lord then King Hezekiah rose early
gather the rulers of the city and went
up to the house of the Lord and they
brought seven bulls seven Rams seven
lambs and seven male goats for a sin
offering for the kingdom for the
sanctuary and for Judah
then he commanded the priests the sons
of Aaron to offer them on the altar of
the law so they killed the Bulls and the
priests received the blood and sprinkled
it on the altar likewise they killed the
Rams and sprinkled the blood on the
altar they also killed the lambs and
sprinkled the blood on the altar then
they brought out the male goats for the
sin offering before the king and the
Assembly and they laid their hands on
them and the priests killed them and
they presented their blood on the altar
as a sin offering to make an atonement
for all Israel for the king commanded
that the burnt offering and the sin
offering be made for all Israel and he
stationed the Levites in the house of
the Lord with cymbals with stringed
instruments and with harps according to
the commandment of David of GAD the King
seer and of Nathan the prophet for thus
was the commandment of the Lord by his
prophets the Levites stood with the
instruments of David and the priests
with the trumpets then Hezekiah
commanded them to offer the burnt
offering on the altar and when the burnt
offering began the song of the Lord also
began with the trumpets and with the
instruments of David king of Israel so
all the Assembly worshipped the singers
sang and the trumpet is sounded all is
continued until the burnt offering was
finished
and when they had finished offering the
king and all who were present with him
bowed and worshiped
moreover King Hezekiah and the leaders
commanded the Levites to sing praise to
the Lord with the words of David and of
sf' the seer so they sang praises with
gladness and they bowed their heads and
worshiped then Hezekiah answered
now that you have consecrated yourselves
to the Lord come near and bring
sacrifices and thank offerings into the
house of the Lord so the Assembly
brought in sacrifices and thank
offerings and as many as were of a
willing heart brought burnt offerings
and the number of the burnt offerings
which the assembly brought was seventy
Bulls one hundred Rams and two hundred
lands all these were for a burnt
offering to the Lord the consecrated
things were six hundred Bulls and three
thousand sheep but the priests were too
few so that they could not skin all the
burnt offerings therefore their brethren
the Levites helped them until the work
was ended and until the other priests
had sanctified them sentence for the
Levites were more diligent in
sanctifying themselves than the priests
also the burnt offerings were in
abundance with the fat of the peace
offerings and with the drink offerings
for every burnt offering
so the service of the house of the Lord
was set in order then Hezekiah and all
the people rejoiced that God had
prepared the people since the events
took place so suddenly